Sanchit jain
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/127ATqYY4FuqQlx6eJUZwBrHtZ41wAk6a?usp=sharing


Keys
https://drive.google.com/file/d/19DCIrSK_4LIk2C-Q8lBxE7kTZO6OWKJL/view?usp=sharing

Normalisation
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JMfGfKIvYLZ4Y1188CgH8mrMrYaK_k21/view?usp=sharing

Joins
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JL8JO1OhKEKiFB_fENUiRI8A55oviGWa/view?usp=sharing 

Transaction

Schedule 







Stiver

DBMS: 
1. What is DBMS ? Mention advantages.. 
    DBMS stands for Database management system. DBMS is the software which is used to manage databases
    Better Data Transferring
    Better Data Security
    Better data integration
    Minimized Data Inconsistency and Redundanecy
    Faster data Access

2. What is Database?

    A database is an organized collection of data, so that it can be easily accessed and managed

    Hierarchical databases
    Network databases
    Relational databases
    NoSQL databases 

3. What is a database system? 
   
   same as DBMS

4. What is RDBMS ? Properties.

    Relational Database is a database system that stores and retrieves data in a tabular format organized 
    in the form of rows and columns

    Values are atomic.
    All of the values in a column have the same data type.
    Each row is unique.
    Each column has a unique name.
    Integrity constraints maintain data consistency across multiple tables.

5. Types of database languages 
   
   Data definition language (DDL) 
   Data manipulation language (DML) 
   Data control language (DCL) 
   Transaction control language 

6. ACID properties (VVVVV IMP) 
   Atomicity   : Transaction occur complete. No resume only restart
   Consistency : Database must be consistent before and after transaction.  integrity constraints must be maintained
   Isolation   : multiple transaction occur together independently
   Durability  : Change in database is permanent

7. Difference between vertical and horizontal scaling 
   
   Scaling alters size of a system. In the scaling process, we either compress or expand the system to meet the expected needs

   Horizontal : When new server racks are added in the existing system to meet the higher expectation   easy to implement     expensive
   Vertical : When new resources are added in the existing system to meet the expectation               hard to implememt     cheap
   
8. What is sharding 
   
    Sharding is a type of DataBase partitioning in which a large DataBase is divided or partitioned into smaller data, also known as shards.

9. Keys in DBMS 
   
   Candidate Key, Primary Key, Foregin Key, Super key

10. Types of relationship 
    One to One relationship
    One to many or many to one relationship
    Many to many relationships

11. Data abstraction in DBMS, three levels of it 

    Database systems comprise complex data-structures.
    Developers use abstraction i.e. hide irrelevant details from the users.

    Physical: This is the lowest level of data abstraction. It tells us how the data is actually stored in memory
    Logical: This level comprises the information that is actually stored in the database in the form of tables.
    View: This is the highest level of abstraction. Only a part of the actual database is viewed by the users

12. Indexing in DBMS 
      Indexing is used to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses required when a query is processed.
      The index is a type of data structure. It is used to locate and access the data in a database table quickly.

13. What is DDL (Data Definition Language) 
    
     Data Definition Language actually consists of the SQL commands that can be used to define the database schema. 
     It simply deals with descriptions of the database schema
     Eg : create, drop, alter, truncate, rename


14. What is DML (Data Manipulation Language)
    
    Commands that deals with the manipulation of data present in the database.
    eg : Insert, update, DELETE
    
15. What is normalization ? Types of them .. 
    Normalization is a process of organizing the data in database to avoid 
    ,data redundancy, insertion anomaly, update anomaly & deletion anomaly

16. What is denormalization ? 
    Denormalization is a database optimization technique in which we add redundant data to one or more tables,
    This can help us avoid costly joins in a relational database,
    Note that denormalization does not mean not doing normalization. 
    It is an optimization technique that is applied after doing normalization. 

17. What is functional dependency ? 
    
    The functional dependency is a relationship that exists between two attributes.
    Trival, Non-Trivial

    It typically exists between the primary key and non-key attribute within a table.

18. E-R Model ? 
    
    ER model stands for an Entity-Relationship model,
    It is a high-level data model. This model is used to define the data elements and relationship for a specified system.
    It develops a conceptual design for the database. It also develops a very simple and easy to design view of data.

19. Conflict Serializability in DBMS
   A schedule is called conflict serializability if after swapping of non-conflicting operations, it can transform into a serial schedule.

20. Explain Normal forms in DBMS 
21. What is CCP ? (Concurrency Control Protocols) 
22. Entity, Entity Type, Entity Set, Weak Entity Set 
23. What are SQL commands ? Types of them.. 
24. Nested Queries in SQL ? 
25. What is JOIN .. Explain types of JOINs 
26. Inner and Outer Join 
27. Practice sql queries from leetcode
28. Diff between 2 tier and 3 tier architecture 
29. Diff between TRUNCATE and DELETE command and DROP
    
    DELETE
    Basically, it is a Data Manipulation Language Command (DML). It is use to delete the one or more tuples of a table. With the help of “DELETE”

    DROP
    It is a Data Definition Language Command (DDL). It is use to drop the whole table.

    TRUNCATE
    It is also a Data Definition Language Command (DDL). It is use to delete all the rows of a relation (table) in one go.

30. Difference between Intension and Extension in a DataBase
31. Difference between share lock and exclusive lock, definition of lock 
