Introduction
 Overview
 Classes & Objects
 Methods
 Polymorphism
 Constructors
 [static] keyword
 [this] keyword
 Inheritance
 Encapsulation
 Abstraction
 [abstract] keyword
 Interfaces


Class :
 A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created,
 It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type

Objects : 
 It is a basic unit of Object-Oriented Programming and represents the real life entities

Methods :
 A method is a collection of statements that perform some specific task and return the result to the caller.
 A method can perform some specific task without returning anything. 
 Methods allow us to reuse the code without retyping the code.

Pillars of OOPS
  Abstraction
  Encapsulation
  Inheritance
  Polymorphism
     Compile-time polymorphism
     Run-time polymorphism


Abstraction:
  Abstraction is the concept of object-oriented programming that "shows" only essential attributes 
  and "hides" unnecessary information.
  The main purpose of abstraction is hiding the unnecessary details from the users
  Methods achive it.

Encapsulation:
  encapsulation (or OOP Encapsulation) refers to the bundling of data, 
  along with the methods that operate on that data, into a single unit. 
  Eg > Classes have binded properties and methord

Inheritance:
  Inheritance is the procedure in which one class inherits the attributes and methods of another class

Polymorphism:
  Polymorphism means having many forms. In simple words,
  We can define polymorphism as the ability of a message to be displayed in more than one form.

  1. Compile-time polymorphism:
    It is also known as static polymorphism. This type of polymorphism is achieved by function overloading 
  
  2. Runtime polymorphism: 
    It is also known as Dynamic Method Dispatch, It is a process in which a function call to the overridden method 
    is resolved at Runtime. This type of polymorphism is achieved by Method Overriding.

Constructor:
  A constructor is a special type of member function of a class which initializes objects of a class.
  
  Constructor has same name as the class itself
  Constructors don’t have return type
  A constructor is automatically called when an object is created.
  It must be placed in public section of class.
  If we do not specify a constructor, C++ compiler generates a default constructor for object (

Static:
  The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly.
  We can apply static keyword with variables, methods

  The static can be:
        Variable (also known as a class variable)
        Method (also known as a class method)
  
  Static variable belongs to class.
    The static variable can be used to refer to the common property of all objects.
    The static variable gets memory only once in the class area at the time of class loading.
  
  Static methord
    A static method belongs to the class rather than the object of a class.
    A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class.
    A static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.


This : 
   this is a reference variable that refers to the current object.
  
   this can be used to refer current class instance variable.
   this can be used to invoke current class method (implicitly)
   this() can be used to invoke current class constructor.
   this can be passed as an argument in the method call.
   this can be passed as argument in the constructor call.

Abstract :

  abstract is a non-access modifier applicable for classes, methods but not variables.
  
  There are two ways to achieve abstraction in java

    Abstract class (0 to 100%)
    Interface (100%)

  A class which is declared as abstract is known as an abstract class.
  It can have abstract and non-abstract methods. It needs to be extended and its method implemented.
  It cannot be instantiated. No Object can be created
  

  Like a class, an interface can have methods and variables,
  but the methods declared in an interface are by default abstract (only method signature, no body).  
  Interfaces specify what a class must do and not how. It is the blueprint of the class.